Hi everyone.
In this video we learn Python numbers.
There are three numeric types in Python.
Int, float and complex.
Like we know, variable of numeric types are created when you assign a value to them.
X is an int because take one, y is a float because take 2.8 and z is a complex with the symbol J.
To verify the type of any object in Python, we use always the type function.
We will see in details each of this type.
Let's start by int.
Int or integer is a whole number positive or negative, without decimal of unlimited length.
It can be positive or negative without unlimited of length.
Why?
Because there are programming languages like Java for example an int it have a max value and mean value.
Float or floating point number, is a number, positive or negative, containing one or more decimals,
like here x.
Take the value 1.10 y take the value 1.0.
We can also specify a float with the letter e uppercase or lowercase like in this example.
This is a float.
A complex number are written with a j letters.
It can be positive or negative.
You can convert from one type to another with the method int, float and complex.
For example, we can convert from n to float with the method float from float to int with the method
int and we can convert also float and int to the complex with the method complex.
But be sure that you cannot convert complex numbers into another number type.
In the section five.
Python does not have a random function to make a random number, but Python has a built in.
Module called random that can be used to make random numbers.
Random is not a function.
In Python, but for example Java, we have a method random in the class Java.
Long dot math.
Why I said method and not a function?
Because a method is always.
Associated to an object to an object.
And this is the difference between method and function.
And.
Here we use the import the module random and we call the function randrange to to make.
A random number.
Let's do some examples to understand more.
By the numbers.
Here we have a lot of example x here defined as int.
Let's execute our code.
I execute the debugger mode.
Let's start by the the first Python numbers.
X take the value of int y.
Take the value of float and z take the value of complex.
To know the type of any object in Python, we use the function type.
And when we see the console, it will be int for the x, float for the y and complex for g.
A number n can be positive or negative and without and unlimited number.
And three.
Three examples x, y and z are type of int air float contain a decimal.
And this is the the type float for each of this example, with the type function in the console, we
show that the class float.
In class.
We can define also a float with the letter E uppercase or lowercase.
Let's see the variable.
X is a float, y is a float also, and z is a float in the console.
All the class are float type conversion.
We can convert from into float.
But before that the type complex.
And we see that in the console.
All these types are complex with the symbol J.
We can convert into float float to int or int float to complex with the method int float and complex.
Here we define a as a float.
And we convert we type of.
We change.
We convert from float to int.
The old value is 22.8.
And after we convert that to int the result it will be only two.
X is an int.
We can convert into complex where we have x is one.
We convert to complex.
And it will be one plus zero j.
We use the modular random to make a random number between 1 to 9.
They give the number one.
Just be sure that the float is defined with the point number or with the scientific number with the
letter e lowercase or uppercase to indicate that the number is a power of ten.
For example, here 35 it will be multiplied by ten.
Power three here by ten power four, and here by ten power 100.
Let's verify the result of this.
Three variables.
Because I don't mention that at the beginning of this video.
Here.
Here we have 35 multiplied by ten power.
Three by 1000.
And why it multiplied by 10,000.
E power e four.
That's mean ten.
Power 4E3.
Power three.
Multiplied by the first part of this number.
Also remember that we can convert from int to float from float to int also from float and int to complex.
But we cannot convert from complex to int or float.
And that's it for this video.